1. The destinction between secondary and tertiary prevention is that secondary prevention is aimed at people who have used the drugs but not come to great harm. It is aimed at preventing more severe use. Tertiary prevention is aimed at those that have experienced the horrors of abuse and is meant to be relapse-preventing or involving treatment programs.
2. The knowledge-attitudes-behavior model presumes that the presence of more information(knowledge) will cause changes in attitudes which will cause decreased drug-using behavior. A study in 1971 first called this model into question by indicating that students who had more knowledge about drugs tended to have a more positive attitude toward drug use.
3. Values-free value clarification means that a program does not preach values, rather it lets the student decide their own moral compass. They fell out of favor because most programs were shown to not work, and this program specifically taught children a difference set of morals than their parents might want them to have.
4. The emphasis provided by drug-free school programs shifted from curriculum to other factors such as school policies on drug use.
5. The five components of the social influence model are training refusal skills, public commitment, countering advertising, normative education, and use of teen leaders.
6. The impact of teenagers in project ALERT was to provide a teen role model. Someone who is of a similar age to tell their story to the younger ones. This had a positive impact mainly because the teens were not the old teachers telling them what to do, rather a person of like age telling them how they feel.
7. DARE is distinguished from other similar programs because while it contains the basic social influence model, it also contains some affective education components like self-esteem building.
8. Both ALERT and Life Skills Training have their effectiveness in common. They also have the their target groups in common: young students.
9. Parenting skills taught and practice in parental skills improvement courses include communication with children, decision-making skills, setting goals and limits, and how to say no.
10. The most consistent feature of drug-free workplace programs is random urine screens.