1. Each of the terms refers to a similar experience. Phantastica was the original name of the class of drugs that produce mind-altering experiences. Then, the term Psychedelic was popularized. Then, because these drugs can produce an altered sense of reality, they have been called psychotomimetic drugs. More recently, entheogen has been used to describe "spiritual" experiences while entactogen is used to describe an internal experience.
2. LSD was used as a way of accessing the 'subconscious' mind during psychotherapy. The Army attempted to use it similar to its prior amphetamine use as a performance-enhancer, but found quite the opposite.
3. The dependence potential of LSD is difficult to describe. It builds tolerance very quickly, and has quick physical dependence characteristics. It also is very potent. But, because of the quick tolerance, I don't think it has the ability to truly build a physical dependence over time, and is therefore only really psychologically dependent-provoking.
4. The scientific name for 'flashback' is Hallucinogen Persisting Perception Disorder.
5. The active ingredient in 'shrooms' is psilocybin and is an indole.
6. It seems that Mescaline, the active ingredient in Peyote, causes an increase in pulse rate and blood pressure and body temperature, as well as pupil dilation and the well-known hallucinations.
7. I honestly don't believe PCP is any good at making the user feel close to another. MDMA produces euphoria, which can be associated with love. The book mainly talks about PCP as being a violent drug. Therefore, I assume they are widely oposite drugs.
8. The Belladonna plant is most widely associated with witchcraft.
9. From the neurotoxic effects of MDMA, it can be concluded that in very high doses in animals, MDMA destroys seratonin neurons. But, with the relevance of animal testing in question during that section, The dosage required is thrown into question and researchers aren't even sure this effect can be seen in humans, or if it even occurs.
10. I read the book and I didn't find an answer for this question, so I looked on the internet. It seems Salvinorin A, found in plants and used by South American and Mexican Shamans, is just the hallucinogen that agonizesd the Kappa opiod receptor.