1. A psychologist can figure out why someone used a drug determining what situation the user was in. For instance, at a restaurant, someone might share a bottle of wine with someone else. This is a very common part of a dinner-date. Say someone was at a party where many people were drinking. It would be safe to say that the person was participating because those around him/her were as well. Peer pressure plays a big role.
2. The intensity of the effect, how high you get, can change with increased doses. Similarly, the speed of the effect becoming prevalent, or the type of effect can also change.
3. 1980 seems to be the peak of drug use in the United States.
4. About 11% of college students use Marijuana regularly. I got this number by taking the middle percentage between those who used in the past 30 days, 17%, and those who use daily, 4.4%. I felt this gives a more accurate number than either of the others for continued drug use because one doesn't need to use every day to be classified as continued drug use. Every two or three days should count as continued.
5. Table 1.3 shows that the difference in use of Marijuana and Cocaine between Whites and Blacks is within an expected standard deviation when comparing to Alcohol and Tobacco. 1% is a negligible gap when looking at upwards of 17% in Tobacco and Alcohol. This means that Whites and Black equally use Marijuana and Cocaine.
6. It seems that the more education a person has, the higher the probability that that person has consumed alcohol in the past 30 days, while the probability the that person has consumed tobacco in the past 30 days decreases.
7. A risk factor for marijuana in Adolescents is knowing a family member who uses marijuana or other substances. A preventative factor is parents who are a major source of social support.
8. It seems that impulsivity relates to a higher rate of drug use and dependence. This would seem logical as the person tends to forget to think about long term factors and focus on the "now".
