1. The book does not state that there are two chemicals extracted from the poppy plant. It states that Opium is the agent extracted from the juices of the plant which oxidizes over night. The only other thing the book mentions are the fumes, but the section refering to those seems to be an extract of Wizard of Oz, which confused me.
2. The significance of DeQuincey's writing comes from his need to provide justification for his daily use of opium. While at the time, the public's opinion was very lax, DeQuincey still felt compelled to write about 'why'. He was one of the first to embody a small group's moral opinion in writing.
3. The Opium wars were mainly between the British and the Chinese and started around 1839. But, if making opium illegal is considered a war, then in 1729 China began an internal Opium war.
4. Heroin was possible to be a non-addictive pain reliever originally because people were not taking it too often and in too high doses, resulting in no withdrawal, and no addiction. With the introduction of syringes and other means of intake, this changed quickly.
5. The typical heroin abuser changed from 1900 to 1920 in three ways. First, the user could obtain the materials through a physician or through other means. Then, in 1914 only through a physician. Then, in 1919 or 1920, physicians stopped giving out drugs to sustain the addicted, so they had to rely on other illegal means to get their fix.
6. Generally, around 1920, physicians stopped giving out prescriptions to the addicted due to laws, pressure by federal officials, and because they were harrassed and arrested enough. In addition, abusers strayed away from ingestion and towards injection.
7. Some of the lessons learned from the Vietnam drug experience are that dependance and compulsive use are not inevitable among occasional users and that given high availability and low cost, a relatively high percentage of people will use opiods recreationally.
8. Using a narcotic antagonist like naloxone on somebody with a physical opiod dependance can precipitate an immediate withdrawal syndrome.
9. Enkephalins and endorphins are naturally opoid-like chemicals in the body. They relate to their plant-based cousins because they produce almost the same effects and are naturally occuring in the body.
10. Opiods and sedatives are both depressants. Taking them together results in additive effects on the respitory system, and can lead to coma and death.