1. L0aissez-Faire roughly translates into "free market", meaning not-controlled. If people want to buy it, then it is allowed to be sold.
2. The major concerns about drugs are toxicity, dependence, and crime.
3. Long-term use of alcohol is most definitely a chronic toxicity. But, whether it is physiological or behavioral depends on the view. It is physiological if you look at the brain damage from alcohol abuse, while the toxicity is behavioral if you look at the fact that the person can't remember something.
4. DAWN collects information on what drugs are involved in the Emergency Room visits and deaths involving drugs.
5. There are a few drugs that are mentioned almost as frequently as alcohol. These include Prescription Opiods and Cocaine as some of the highest, while Benzodiazepines are not very far behind either.
6. AIDS is of particular concern for illicit drug users as it is very easily transmittable through sex or sharing of needles. AIDS does not have a cure, but has drugs that can severely halt the disease. The problem: illicit drug users rarely go to a medical professional, and very rarely have the funds for these drugs alongside their addictions.
7. It seems that Heroin and Crack Cocaine, injected intravenously, have the highest dependence potential, with Morphine, also injected, coming in a close third. This supports the assumption that injection has a higher dependence potential than other methods of drug ingestion.
8. LSD and Mescaline both seem to have a very low dependence potential.
9. The book discusses four 'senses' that drug use might cause crime. The first is that drug use causes one to abandon a sense of morality. Another is that criminal behavior occurs when a person is under the influence of the drug. Yet another refers to crimes carried out for the purpose of obtaining money. The last sense in which drug use causes crime is that illicit drug use is a crime itself.
10. Per year, the USA makes about 1.5 million arrests for drug-law violations.
