1. Nicotine was named after Jean Nicot because he had glowing success in spread the 'curing' effects of tobacco around and very heavily popularized it.
2. The desired species that saved the Virginia colony was Nicotiana tobacum.
3. Two main techniques have been used to produce 'safer' cigarettes: lower amount of tar and lower amount of nicotine.
4. While the book doesn't give specific age ranges and specific numbers, I've decided to say about 10% because the College numbers sit around 7% and the non-college numbers around 15%. So, an even 10% seems nice to look at.
5. Tobacco-specific nitrosamines seem to be potent carcinogens, meaning they can cause cancer, and you inhale them. The can cause leukoplakia, which is very harmful for the lungs and can cause shortness of breath and cancer.
6. The single most common cause of death associated with smoking is cancer, but heart disease is also a leading cause. Alongside this, pretty much all the research states that anything related to good physical health is impaired by smoking, that it doesn't do any good to any part of the body at any time.
7. There is an abundance of evidence that secondhand smoke is bad for people. The question resides in how bad, and if this can be tested. The main evidence is sidestream smoke directly coming off the cigarette which is much higher in 'bad stuff' than the smoke exhaled by the smoker.
8. There are many negative effects to smoking with child. One of them is that the baby normal.y ends up lighter than nonsmokers' babies. Another outcome could be sudden infant death syndrome. Yet another is the small size, higher rate of neurological problems, and less reading and math skill of smokers' babies.
9. Nicotine seems to mimic the neurotransmitter acetylchonine by first stimulating the receptor and then blocking synapse communication.
10. The main evidence that cigarettes produce dependency are the withdrawal symptoms and the almost immediate 'hitting' of the puff. Nicotine use mimics cocaine and heroin levels of addiction and gratification.