1. Some of the steps of AA are admitting alcohol's dominance over the self, believing in a power greater than us with the will to help us, subject to the rules of god a believe fully, make a moral inventory of the self, admitting to others the wrongdoings that have been done, be entirely ready for god to remove all character flaws, humbly ask god to remove those flaws, make a list of people harmed by the person and be willing to make amends to those people.
2. The four stages of change are the contemplation stage, the preparation stage, the action stage, and the maintenance stage.
3. During contingency management, the subject is given rewards for delivering clean urine sample. The more clean samples in a row the greater the reward. A positive sample, though, will result in witholding of rewards.
4. An example of Agonist Therapy is using Methadone to substitute for Heroin. An example of Antagonist Therapy is using naltrexone to prevent opioid effect. An example of Punishment Therapy is using disulfiram to treat alcohol dependence.
5. It seems benozodiazepines are the drugs of choice to prevent extreme alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
6. Disulfiram and Naltrexone are two drugs used during the mainenance phase. Disulfiram is a punishment drug, and creates multiple forms of discomfort. Naltrexone meanwhile block Opioid receptors and inhibits dependence-producing symptoms. Both are similar in that they don't seem to work all that great.
7. A few nicotine-replacement therapies are the nicotine patch, nicotine gun, nicotine nasal spary, and nicotine lozenge.
8. Both methadone and buprenorphine are relatively slow-acting drugs with a low overdose potential. Both are different from naltrexone because they are opiod agonists while naltrexone blocks opioid receptors.
9. Cocaine withdrawal medications target the monoamine neurotransmitters.
10. Cannabis dependence seems to be quite rare with withdrawal symptoms seeming to be rather mild. The most promising drug for treating cannabis dependence is drobinol.