http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb842062
http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb545027


What program can you use to mimic a BlueScreen complete wth CHKDSK?
-BlueScreen.
What is your system clock's maximum timer resolution?-find the appropriate program and use it to find the answer
-The answers vary, but are in ms.
How much of your disk is being used by the system32 folder? Take a screenshot.
-Screenshot of Disk Usage(DU)
Give the steps for giving process explorer admin priviledges(from inside the program), and end a process tree.
-File->Show Details for All Processes. Then rightclick on a process and click on "Kill Process Tree"
What sys internal tool would you use if you want to see UDP or TCP ports information
-TCP VIEW
What is whois?
-Whois displays the registration record for the domain name or IP address that you specify. This includes contact information and geographic information.
Which tool would allow you to create a virtual disk out of your disk?
-Disk2vhd
What program would you run if you want to flush all the file system data to the disk?
-Sync
What is the syntax to create a stream called Quiz?
-Quiz:Stream
Which program would you run to display all of windows objects?
-winObj
What makes contig different from a typical disk defragmenter?
-Contig can defragment specific files
What does diskmon monitor?
-Idividual disk reads/writes
What does the handle utility do?
-It shows every handle on the system

Process Explorer
Hex2dec
PsExec
PsList
PsSuspend
PsService
RAMMap
LiveKd



Process Explorer-super damn useful better windows task manager
Hex2dec-convert hex to decimal and vice versa
LiveKd-Use Microsoft kernel debuggers to examine a live System, must have kernel debugging tools from the Microsoft SDK
    use -hvl to list names and ids of active VMs
    use -hv {name of machine} to specify the one you want to examine
    use -p to pause the machine giving you a frozen-in-time view of the virtual machine while you poke around. 
The LiveKD tool simulates local kernel debugging. This tool creates a "snapshot" dump file of the kernel memory, without actually stopping the kernel while this snapshot is made. (Therefore, the snapshot might not actually show a single instant state of the computer.)

Sigcheck-check digitally signed things
PsExec-Execute processes on remote systems
    run with PsExec.exe {location of program}
PsList-show information about processes and threads
PsKill-terminate local or remote processes
PsSuspend-Suspend and resume processes
PsService-View and Control Services
RAMMap-advanced physical memory usage analysis
FindLinks-reports the file index and any hard links
RootkitRevealer-if searches for rootkits