1. The maximum concentration of alcohol that can be made through fermentation of about 15%, which is about 30 proof.
2. Prohibition did reduce alcohol abuse, having reduced the average intake of alcohol per capita.
3. It seems that overall consumption of alcohol peaked in 1981.
4. Binge drinking in men seems to be about twice as likely than women, with 32% to 15%.
5. The body metabolises about 50% of a standard drink in an hour.
6. For a 118kg male like myself to reach DUI-levels of BAC, I would estimate about 6-8oz of spirits in an hour because I am more fat than lean, and that keeps the BAC even higher.
7. Alcohol enhances the inhibitory effects of GABA on the GABA-A receptors.
8. The typical behaviour effects of a person with 0.20 BAC are a marked depression in sensory and motor capability and intoxication.
9. The balanced placebo tests for alcohol are divided in to 4 groups. The first receives an alcoholic drink and is told they are drinking alcohol. The second also receives alcohol but is told they are testing a non-alcoholic drink. The third and fourth are both given non-alcoholic drinks, with one of the two being told they are drinking alcohol, and the other being told they are not.
10. The book doesn't clearly state a term in the usual bold typeface, but it seems to call the near-sightedness of alcohol drinkers "a kind of social and behavioral myopia".
11. In 2004, about 40% of traffic fatalities were suspected to be alcohol-related.
12. It seems that the role of expectancy in males' increased sexual interest after drinking is that men are more aroused when they believe that they've 'had a few'.
13. Alcohol has been seen to decrease inhibitions according to the "Alcohol Myopia", which makes a person more likely to act on instinct rather than thinking something through. Some people will become more helpful while others will focus more on their anger and likely be more violent.
14. Drinking alcohol to stay warm in the winter only works if you are drinking it hot, like Jager-Tee or Gluhwein(German winter drinks). Alcohol opens your veins, and allows more heat to reach your extremities with the consequence being heat loss at your core(the part that actually needs the heat most).
15. Two things that can be done to attempt to avoid the death of a person who drank too much and passed out are to never leave them alone, and call 911 immediately. One can also get a sober person to attempt to help and also monitor breathing.
16. Brain damage has not been fully proven to heal over after long-term alcohol abuse. Some studies have found regrowth of brain tissue, while others have not. This also seems to very from person to person, not just groups of people.
17. Less than 10% of babies born to the heaviest-drinking 5 percent of mothers exhibit full-blown FAS.
18. The book is not specific as to which exact symptom is the most dangerous, but it refers to stage 3 as being particularly bad. I feel that both stages 3 and 4 contain very dangerous withdrawal symptoms.
19. The AA believe that alcohol dependence is a progressive disease.
20. The likelihood for the identical twin of someone who has been diagnosed with alcohol dependence is as high as 50%.